# my-blockchain (Bitcoin)
A minimal, stand-alone version of the blockchain (Bitcoin) Java implementation that includes core functions such as cryptocurrency, mining, and wallets. It can be used as an introductory project to help beginners quickly understand the core principles of blockchain.

## Timechain (Blockchain)
Blocks are connected in the form of a linked list to form a blockchain. It can be understood as an append-only distributed log database, which records transactions. After the new block is generated, it will be appended to the end of the blockchain as part of the blockchain. Each peer (peer) saves a complete data of the blockchain, and everyone manages their respective blockchains through the same method, and finally achieves data consistency. (In most complete blockchain systems, not all nodes save complete blockchain data, some lightweight nodes only save part, some wallet nodes are only responsible for transactions, and the data is handed over to full nodes for verification)

## Block
The basic unit of the blockchain, the messages in the blockchain network are stored on each block. The hash value of a block is unique in the entire system, and a specific block can be located through the hash value.

## Transfer
A transfer operation on behalf of one or more accounts to another account. Unlike banking systems, where someone specifically records each person's balance, the blockchain calculates the balance of an account from each transfer record. All transaction records are stored on the blockchain, and every node can query any transaction record.

## Account
It consists of a public key and a private key. The public key is equivalent to an account, and the private key is equivalent to a password. It represents a unique address or account in the blockchain world. All property and information in the blockchain belong to a certain account. . At the same time, since the status of each account is public, no one can force the transfer of property from an account unless they have the secret key. The account is generated by the user himself and does not require the help of a third party or the real world, so it is anonymous.

## Wallet
Manage local accounts. You can add, delete accounts, initiate transfers, etc.

## Miner
Mining refers to packaging verified transactions that have not been packaged into a block into a block, and calculating the correct hash value. After mining a correct block, it should be broadcast to the entire blockchain network immediately, and other nodes will accept the block after verification. The node that dug out the block can issue 50 coins to itself as a reward, and put it in the block together.

There are more detailed comments in the code.

Refer to:
1. [jeiwan blog](https://jeiwan.net/)
2. [Xing Kaichun helloworldcoin project](https://github.com/helloworldcoin/helloworldcoin-java)
3. [Liuchengxu Blockchain Tutorial Summary](https://github.com/liuchengxu/blockchain-tutorial)
4. [Bitcoin White Paper](https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf)
5. [MIT Blockchain Course](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUl4u3cNGP63UUkfL0onkxF6MYgVa04Fn)
